Start with two independent axes.
Human intensity measures how much continuous judgment, taste, negotiation, or context only you can provide.
Agent intensity measures how much searching, transforming, coordinating, or tool use the AI can perform.
These axes are not opposites.
A task can require high human intensity and high agent intensity at the same time.
A product launch, for example, may need constant human calls while an agent gathers evidence, updates artifacts, and checks dependencies.
Now add four routing questions.
Is the desired output already specific?
How much human judgment must stay inside the work?
Can success be checked with observable evidence?
And what happens if the AI is wrong?
Those questions are more useful than asking whether a model is capable.
Capability is only one input.
A capable model can still be a poor fit when the task is ambiguous, the evidence is weak, or a mistake has a large consequence.
The Microsoft research makes the human boundary visible.
Eighty-six percent of respondents treated AI output as a starting point and still saw themselves as responsible for the final result.
The important move is not removing the human.
It is placing human attention where it changes the outcome.
So draw the map before you choose the tool.
Put human intensity on one axis, agent intensity on the other, and route the current phase of the task.
Do not label an entire project once and assume the mode will never change.
First, Human intensity and agent intensity are independent.
Second, Choose from task conditions, not AI ambition.
Third, Outcome ownership stays with the human.